>> Kyle Simpson: I guess my biggest
negative is that they chose to
use a syntax that they had to
layer on top of JavaScript.
And some day, maybe JavaScript
standardizes this syntax in it.
What they've had to do is essentially go
and define an external standard for it.
It's not that there is no spec,
but it's an external standard,
not a JavaScript standard.
And there's certainly no guarantee or even
likelihood at this point that we see in
TypeScript or Flow is exactly what might
end up in some hypothetical JavaScript.
But it is years away, it's not like
we have a stage three proposal to
add typing to JavaScript
at any point soon.
This is way far out if it ever happens.
And I think it creates a sort of ecosystem
lock-in whenever you choose a particular
syntax and a particular kind of tooling
that isn't portable, because it isn't
the same as what JavaScript is.
JavaScript won because it's so ubiquitous,
but then now we're locking ourselves into
this ecosystems that even though it's
popular, is not necessarily as ubiquitous.
And so I guess that's one of my biggest
frustrations or my biggest hesitations.
Now, it is true that I was actually very
pleased when I saw that these tools came
out with a way that you can do their
typing annotations using only code
comments.
So at least in that scenario,
you haven't locked yourself into
if I don't use this tool this code
literally can't run, all right?
That's sort of an escape valve if you
will, and that's a good thing, but
almost nobody's using the code comments.
Everybody's using the inline
syntax annotations.
And so
there is a lot of lock-in that happens and
I guess I've been around long enough
to be wary of those sorts of lock-ins.
Another thing, and I've got an asterisk
here on purpose, but essentially using
those tools requires a build process
which kinda raises the barrier to entry.
And the only reason that you wouldn't
be required to have the build process
is if you did that code
comments approach and
then got no benefit from
the system whatsoever.
So nobody would do that.
Nobody would go to all the trouble
to write all those code comments and
then not use the tool at all in
the compiler and then ship it directly.
So they're essentially
requiring this build process.
And build processes are definitely
common these days, but
again as an old schooler it's nice to just
be able to write a JavaScript file and
load it directly into a page
without having the complexity of
a dozen tools in some particular pipeline.
And so I'm not a big fan of us saying
to future developers that wanna learn
JavaScript, by the way,
you also have to learn all this DevOps and
stuff just to write your
first line of JavaScript.
If TypeScript represented what I hope
the future of JavaScript would be,
what bothers me is that
TypeScript is done in such a way
that they're gonna be locked
into that build process forever.
And I don't think that's
great as a barrier to entry.
>> Kyle Simpson: Kind of flowing from that
same discussion would be that there is
a trade-off when you make
really sophisticated tools,
is that you create a surface area
which gets complex very quickly.
The difference between the examples that
I've showed, which were just some sort of
basic layered-on types, and when you start
layering in things like generics and
interfaces and other things like that,
you rapidly, rapidly get to a style of
code that doesn't look even
remotely like JavaScript.
It looks like Haskel, in my estimation.
And I don't mean that in a sort of,
I don't mean that in a way to say,
TypeScript's bad because that's
the case but that is very intimidating.
I mean I'm spending time and lots of
mental effort here trying in the research
for this course trying to
figure this stuff out, and
I start reading through some of
the advanced features of this.
And I just got completely lost with all
these angles brackets nested all over
the place and stuff.
The syntax explodes
exponentially in complexity.
And I think if anyone were using
those sophisticated features,
I cannot imagine them hiring a developer
on that was not already very, very
strong TypeScript developer, them having
any clue what to do with the code base.
So again,
that barrier to entry ramps up very,
very quickly as your start to use more and
more of that tool.
And I guess maybe the final
frustration that I have or
the difference that I share with
these tools is that I don't
think it's in the DNA of JavaScript to
consider the idea of static typing.
That is that containers, things like
variables and parameters and returns and
properties, that they necessarily must
only have one type always and forever.
There can be some places where that's
beneficial like the return type-over
function but variables, I guess,
specifically, I don't think that's
within the DNA to type our variables.
If you think of what JavaScript really
is and in fact any dynamic language
it's a language that is value typing,
not variable typing.
And so this feels like the wrong
thing foisted on top of JavaScript.
It feels fundamentally to me
like it's not, it's a betrayal,
it's not respecting
the way JavaScript works.
It's trying to make it
into something different.
And some people are trying to make it into
something different because they think
what JavaScript currently is,
is insufficient.
That it's broken,
that it's not good enough.
I think JavaScript is fantastic.
So I don't think we
need to fix JavaScript.
That I think is probably one
of the strongest callings.
So there's a big divide there, between the
great things that this tooling can do for
the ecosystem, and for
the teams that are using it, and
I think some really strong downsides, and
there should be more options in between.
And it's why I started this discussion
by saying I wanna broaden the discussion
from just specifically these two
trademarks like TypeScript and
Flow to a larger discussion about
the idea of type aware linting.
The type aware linting as
an idea is useful and important.
And TypeScript and Flow are two
particular ways of doing it, but
not the only ways of doing it.